the Havanese this tiny canine with a big
heart has a taste for the good life and
it's no wonder for centuries these
pampered pooches have adorned the laps
of their rich and famous
Viktoria home two of the toy dogs and
Charles Dickens had one he
affectionately called Tim but Barbara
Walters swears her Havanese is really
something special her dog's name is
ChaCha
and that she said that it told her I
love you she announced that on the view
there's no doubt that what the Havanese
lacks in size it makes up for in
personality it is a very lively dog it
is a very affectionate dog it is a very
people loving dog and it is bred solely
for companion
the other thing that's good about the
Havanese is though not the yappy and
snappy like a lot of the toy breeds
the Havanese is an ancient breed whose
origins can be traced to the
Mediterranean as far back as the 1st
century AD these charming pets are
believed to be members of the Bichon
family and to have traveled aboard
Spanish trade ships to Cuba in the early
16th century when the Cuban Revolution
broke
to the United States with their
well-to-do owners that means all the
Havanese in the u.s. today can be traced
to 11 companies immigrants while they're
still considered rare their popularity
is growing Davi is definitely in the top
five breeds of dogs in New York City
right now in Cuba the Havanese is the
national dog and the country's only
native dream hence the name Havanese
personable as well as pretty Havanese
come in a rainbow of colors everything
from black to white chocolate to silver
and any combination in between but their
most unique physical characteristic is
their beautiful silky coat describe this
raw silk floss the Havanese coat is wavy
soft and bountiful insulating the dog
from the harsh tropical rays of its
native land
it's a dog that should look like down
and she looks messy shouldn't papi
that's the characteristic
but some Havanese owners prefer to keep
their dogs in shorter coats
necessitating even more trips to the
groomer short coded or long the Havanese
will bounce its way into your heart with
its distinctive gait
this spring in the Havanese step is a
result of having slightly shorter front
legs than rear legs that's all part of
the charm
just like the Bream's arch detail which
curls over its
Havanese are best suited to indoor
living these are perfect city and
apartment dog they need a moderate
amount of daily exercise but can adapt
to most environments if you want to have
it in the country and take it for long
walks in the woods keep in mind that
that coat is ideal for picking up debris
which means when you get home you need
to thoroughly brush them out you can say
that again
if you own a Havanese you better become
good friends with a brush and use it
several times each
you don't want to brush your dog this is
not the dog for you as for their health
the breed is prone to developing
cataracts they may suffer from
progressive retinal atrophy a genetic
condition that can cause blindness but
training them shouldn't be too tough as
long as you provide them with lots of
positive reinforcement what's nice about
the Havanese is
to be house-trained which is huge for
toy free to god that means no surprises
inside the house they blend into family
life well but younger children may
require supervision
the long and the short of it is that the
Havanese is an ideal apartment dog they
may suffer from some high problems like
cataracts they require frequent grooming
they are trainable but prefer a gentle
hand and as long as small children are
supervised they're mild manner makes
them a good family dog it seems that
this little dog from Havana is destined
to keep winding its way into people's
hearts